title: Fixed vs Floating Electricity and Natural Gas -- February 2023 Edition
category: fixed-vs-floating
date: 2023-02-01

*tl,dr*: Today's advice: go with **fixed power**. Natural gas is more
complicated.

If you're trying to decide between fixed and floating for electricity and
natural gas, this is where I lay out my (professionally informed) opinion on
the matter. This is as of the beginning of February 2023, and I expect to
change as time goes by.

For power, the floating prices remain very high (up to ~32 &cents;/kWh in
recent months), and there is no indication that they are expected to fall in
the near future. Fixed prices (at ~11 &cents/kWh) remain high mby historical
standards, but are downright cheap in comparision. **For electricity, go with a
fixed rate.** Our fixed prices have slowly been increasing month over month,
but if (when) they drop again, you can always swap to our new, lower rate at no
penalty.

For natural gas, floating prices remain high-ish. When they first started
rising, it seemed to correspond to the war in Ukraine and so originally I hoped
the war would soon be resolved and prices would return to "normal"; that was a
year ago now. In recent months, our fixed prices have continued to fall
slightly month to month, and have remained somewhat lower than our floating
prices. **For natural gas, it's a toss-up**: if you expect the war and natural
gas supply situation to continue as it has been, go fixed; if you expect to
move in the next 5 years, stay with floating (as the fixed has an early exit
fee).
